Objectives Achieved this week.

Identified three potential capstone project topics and followed on with thorough research on each idea.

Profanity detection in a Facebook post.
Face mask detection and classification.
Handwritten text recognition using Deep Learning.


1. Profanity Detection in a Facebook post.

Proposal:
There are many kinds of barriers people are facing on socialmedia and Facebook is no exception.
Harsh words and abusive language are one of these barriers.
So, we are going to create a simple prototype for detecting and removing this barrier.

Steps and models included:
On the first stage, we have decided to divide our prototype into 4 stages.
1) Create simple scraper to scrape Facebook post.(text data Only).
2) Apply pre-processing tasks to clean that data.
3) Create profanity algorithm to detect violation (Using NLP algorithm).
4) Merge scraped data to our algorithm.


2. Face mask Detection and Classification.
Proposal:
Now a days masks has been a mandatory thing to wear  if you want to go anywhere but here’s a catch not all masks are effective against the virus.
The cloth masks which people use are not effective as Surgical or N95 and in some places the masks which are made of cloth are not even allowed. 
So we want to develop an AI architecture which can successfully classify between this masks and help to prevent Covid-19.

Steps and models included:
1)We need to take the images with mask on and mask off we can take the image dataset from Kaggle as it would allow us to take more images.
2)Apply pre-processing tasks to clean that data.
3)We will develop a Face Mask Detector CNN model with that we can detect the Facemask. 


3. Handwritten text recognition using Deep Learning
 
a) Use cases
Health care and pharma 
Insurance 
Banking 
Literature
 

b) Methods and procedure 
Collect data and engineer it for the algorithm. 
Perform feature extraction to identify loops strokes and dots. 
Feed the features to classifiers.

c) Challenges in this model development
Huge variability and ambiguity of strokes from person to person
Handwriting style of an individual inconsistent
Poor quality of the source document
Cursive handwriting



 
